All right, just some quick logistic
notes is everything we did so
far is in this live coding,
importing JS and CSS.
And we made that template repo on React,
we're going back to the starter now.
That was basically to show you the plugin
in place, there's some React code.
If you've used Create React app before,
just imagine if it was faster, right?
And it calls it main.tsx instead
of index or whatever, and
it has index.html on the top level.
If you've used React before
it's basically very
similar to the same thing.
So let's get back to kinda
little basic starter.
I would say that as I think about
the four acts, act 1, Vite is simple, and
then act 2, Vite is powerful.
Being that easy to pull in your
framework of choice is like that
fulcrum between simple and
powerful, right?
Cuz now, you've got whatever
framework makes you the happiest.
You've got TypeScript configured the way
that you want it with not that much work.
So it's both simple and powerful.
I think as we start to move
into the powerful piece,
we're gonna talk a little
bit about some of the things
that are best practices that
maybe we don't always do,
right, because sometimes I have deadlines,
right?
And hand editing a bunch of images for
various sizes ain't gonna happen, right?
It would be great if my tooling
could do stuff like that.
It would be great if I could run my
static assets through my tooling.
And it's one of those things
where there's wrapping your
head around how Vite processes
static assets is not that hard.
It's fairly simple.
But it's one of those things where it's
like, if you don't know the two or
three core little things, and
it feels like dark science versus if
you just know how it works, then all of
a sudden you have the ability to do
whatever the thing that you need to do is.
So I'm gonna spin up the server again,
it's at 5173.
And let's say that we want to
bring in some kinda static asset.
By a static asset, I mean something that's
not CSS or JavaScript in this case, right?
Images, count, fonts, count,
SVGs, I guess those are images,
but you know what I mean,
so on and so forth.
The other things in our web
apps that are not the CSS, and
the JS, and/or the HTML, right?
And the most standard way to do this is,
the wrong file, there we go.
Let's do it.
Yeah, if anything is in the public directory,
as when we saw that build,
they got copied over as they were, right?
All of my assets that were from the build
stuff, those got hashes on them, right?
Anything in the public directory
is effectively just lifted and
shifted over into the dist directory, except
instead of being the public directory,
they're putting the top level.
So that when you do, whatever.com/images,
it's not /public/images,
it's just they're moved up to the root.
But effectively, that's all that happens.
Now, that might not be what you want,
right?
Maybe you do want to hash them, right,
so that they're cached appropriately.
So the image changes, they're not
getting the old one from cache.
Maybe that's what you want.
Maybe you wish that your build tool
could theoretically process any of
these static assets,
depending on what they are.
And the cool thing about Vite is that,
sure,
we're gonna pull images at first.
But with any of these plugins that we'll
see towards the very end, if you wanted to
be able to pull in YAML and work on it
like it was JSON, you can do that, right?
If you want to be able to run all the SVGs
through SVG go, which is the optimizer
takes out all the other craft and
gets the file size down, you can do this.
There are plugins for all of these things.
So in the same way that CSS, you can't
really, I guess, the correction to what I
said before, there was a question like,
the import syntax web standard,
it is web standard when you're
importing in JavaScript.
But as most of us know, you cannot import,
you can't just run TypeScript in
the browser, you can't import CSS.
Vite is basically,
if you saw when I looked at my Sources tab
turning it into JavaScript, that that it then loads.
So those CSS modules were turned into
five lines of JavaScript that's gonna
add a link tag with that style or style
tag with those styles in it onto the page.
And TypeScript has literally
just turned into JavaScript.
But it's turning it into JavaScript,
which is then web standard.
Just gonna do something similar
with the images as well.
And so I've got one image here and
it's called steve-after-a-workshop.
There, that's me sitting in front of my
house after two days of teaching, right?
And so right now,
that's just copied wholesale into,
that is literally my front porch,
by the way.
There's one dressed up
like my son as well and
I like that everyone in the neighborhood
knew who it was as well.
So If I wanna pull this up right now,
it's in the images directory and
I could theoretically go in and
just like, it's just an image tag really.
I can go into index.html at this point and
I can just say like, I don't know,
put in the content.
We'll say img and we'll say the source.
And again, it's in the public directory
under /images/, where is it?
Could have picked a shorter
file name 2020 hindsight.
Put that in there.
Seemed like a good idea at the time
that I wasn't standing live coding.
Pop that in and put it in place and
we should see it on the page.
It's angry about some
other stuffs I changed.
I think I change that to a .ts before, so
we'll fix that real quick while
I was talking coding earlier.
Turn that back to a JS, because
that's the file that we're requiring.
And now, we'll get rid of
that TypeScript annotation.
And then I'll go back to my main point.
All right, cool, I have an image.
It is ginormous,
cuz I literally just took it.
I got a fancy phone now.
It takes nice pictures,
and they're big and
I just literally took the file wholesale.
And I copied it in, cuz I was trying to
make a point, which I'm about to make.
So we can put an image tag in there.
But now, it's basically my entire
app is the file size of the image
plus however many characters
are live code written with you.
And it'd be great if we could actually
figure out and work with the 7.
We'll actually see that this will start
very simple, and we'll see actually
Vite has a few other non-webbish standard
things that make this even better and
practical for us in a little bit, but
let's start with the kind of core piece.
So we know that that's one way to go about
doing it, but that's just HTML, right?
That's how we're all showing up here for
today.
So let's go ahead and let's look
at some other ways to handle this.
So what we can do instead is we
can go ahead and say index.js.
Well, let's go ahead and
let's import image.
We're gonna take it, we're gonna move it.
Anything in the public directory,
we can't access, right?
You can only get stuff in source,
right, in that source folder.
Otherwise, you can't go up five file
directories in the file system and
grab stuff.
It's like, I live here, I watch files
here, please keep this easy for me.
So we'll just go and we'll grab this, and
we're just literally gonna move it
into the source directory, right?
Cool, yeah, I got it in there perfect.
So I can do image from, check this out.
It does not out of the box, right?
VS CODE,
without a little bit of tweaking is not super keen
on knowing that I can autocomplete that.
But steve-after-workshop.jpg, and
really all I'll do real quick is I'm
going to console log the image, right?
So you can see what
we're working with here.
We're not gonna do anything
with it just yet, right?
We'll go to the console and
you can see that it knows the URL.
It's basically giving me
back the URL in this case
of the image, right,
so that's interesting.
I think if I just build it right now,
it'd be interesting to tree
shaking does anything with it.
Let's go npm run build.
So we can see when we run the build,
that we actually get the hashed build.
And you can see this was
effectively 5 megabytes.
We'll deal with that in a second.